Africa’s Global Bank Tax Identification Number : 01126011-0001
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
Interest income 5 599,834 440,764
Interest income on amortised cost and FVOCI securities 597,056 440,448
Interest income on FVTPL securities 2,778 316
Net interest income 351,877 3 00,676
Fees and commission income 7 124,074 113,653
Net fee and commission income 71,955 6 2,172
Net trading and foreign exchange income 9 37,035 11,901
Other operating income 10 3,369 3,840
Total non-interest income 112,359 7 7,913
Operating income 464,236 3 78,589
Net impairment charge on other financial assets 11b (3,057) ( 1,675)
Net operating income after impairment loss on loans and 450,057 3 75,309
Profit before income tax 204,266 1 56,344
Taxation charge 15 (14,422) ( 13,760)
Profit for the period 189,844 1 42,584
Other comprehensive income
Items that will be reclassified to income statement:
other comprehensive income(FVOCI):
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:
Fair value changes on equity investments at FVOCI 14,256 117,328
Other comprehensive (loss) / income, net of tax 66,607 4 38,882
Total comprehensive income for the period 256,451 5 81,466
Profit attributable to:
Profit for the period 189,844 1 42,584
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Total comprehensive income for the period 256,451 5 81,466
ASSETS
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 18 2 6,896 100,687
Assets under management 19 1 5,175 15,175
Derivative assets 24 1 81,758 188,583
- At fair value through other comprehensive income 22 6 ,207,181 4,942,106
Other assets 23 1 ,224,429 1,186,263
Intangible assets 6 6,346 66,864
Deferred tax assets 1 24,901 140,371
TOTAL ASSETS 3 1,712,733 30,323,355
LIABILITIES
Derivative liabilities 24 3 2,959 33,849
Other liabilities 27 3 29,459 680,313
Current income tax payable 15 5 9,198 138,983
Deferred tax liabilities 3 ,617 5,614
TOTAL LIABILITIES 2 8,037,642 26,904,716
EQUITY
EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT
TOTAL EQUITY 3 ,675,091 3,418,639
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 3 1,712,733 30,323,355
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
For the three months ended 31 March 2025 Capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity
Profit for the period - - - - - - 183,014 183,014 6,830 189,844
Fair value change in financial assets classified as FVOCI - - - - 12,420 - - 12,420 - 1 2,420
Fair value change in equity instruments classified as FVOCI - - - - 14,256 - - 14,256 - 1 4,256
Total comprehensive income for the period - - 2 6,952 - 26,676 - 1 83,014 236,642 19,810 2 56,451
Profit for the period - - - - - - - 135,565 135,565 7,019 142,584
Fair value change in (available-for-sale) financial assets - - - - ( 40,432) - - - (40,432) - (40,432)
Fair value change in equity instruments classified as FVOCI - - - - 117,328 - - - 117,328 - 1 17,328
Total comprehensive income for the period - - 3 49,599 - 76,895 - - 1 35,565 562,060 19,405 5 81,466
Profit before income tax 2 04,266 1 56,344
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 2 ,027 1 ,538
Impairment charge on other assets 11b 2 ,260 1 ,675
Dividend income 10 ( 1) ( 1)
Net interest income ( 351,877) ( 300,676)
Change in financial assets measure at FVTPL 73,791 ( 26,778)
Change in other assets (29,205) 3 76,117
Change in other liabilities and provisions (350,854) 1 63,202
Income tax paid 15 (94,207) ( 36,721)
Purchase of intangible assets 1,650 1 1,975
- Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
- Financial instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
applicationofpoliciesandreportedamountsofassetsandliabilities,incomesandexpenses.Theestimatesandassociated
circumstances,theresultsofwhichformthebasisofmakingthejudgmentsaboutcarryingvaluesofassetsandliabilitiesthat
value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree;
· less the net amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When this total is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-controllinginterestsaremeasuredattheirproportionateshareoftheacquiree'sidentifiablenetassetsattheacquisition
date. Changes in the Group's interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity
Costsrelatedtotheacquisition,otherthanthoseassociatedwiththeissueofdebtorequitysecuritiesthattheGroupincursin
Ifthebusinesscombinationisachievedinstages,theacquisitiondatecarryingvalueofanypreviouslyheldequityinterestin
recognised in profit or loss.
classifiedasequity,itisnotremeasuredandsettlementisaccountedforwithinequity.Otherwise,subsequentchangestothe
fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
controlislost,withthechangeincarryingamountrecognisedinprofitorloss.Thefairvalueistheinitialcarryingamountforthe
amountspreviouslyrecognisedinothercomprehensiveincomeinrespectofthatentityareaccountedforasifthegrouphad
directlydisposedoftherelatedassetsorliabilities.Thismaymeanthatamountspreviouslyrecognisedinothercomprehensive
income are reclassified to profit or loss.
Intra-groupbalancesandanyunrealisedgainsorlossesorincomesandexpensesarisingfromintra-grouptransactions,are
Transactionswithnon-controllingintereststhat donot result inlossofcontrolareaccountedforasequitytransactions.The
differencebetweenfairvalueofanyconsiderationpaidandtherelevantshareacquiredofthecarryingvalueofnetassetsof
the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals of non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity
methodofaccounting.Undertheequitymethod,theinvestment isinitiallyrecognisedatcost,andthecarryingamountis
increasedordecreasedtorecognisetheinvestor’sshareoftheprofitorlossoftheinvesteeafterthedateofacquisition.The
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
TheGroup’sshareofpost-acquisitionprofitorlossisrecognisedinprofitorlossanditsshareofpost-acquisitionmovementsin
othercomprehensiveincomeisrecognisedinothercomprehensiveincomewithacorrespondingadjustmenttothecarrying
amountoftheassociateanditscarryingvalueandrecognisestheamountadjacentto‘shareofprofit/(loss)'ofassociatesin
profit or loss.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Group’s financial
Dilution gains and losses arising on investments in associates are recognised in the profit or loss.
monetary assets andliabilities denominatedin foreigncurrencies arereported usingtheclosingexchangerate.Exchange
unrealizedforeignexchangedifferencesonunsettledforeigncurrencymonetaryassetsandliabilities,arerecognizedinprofit
Unrealizedexchangedifferencesonnon-monetaryfinancialassetsareacomponentofthechangeintheirentirefairvalue.
For non-monetary financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, unrealized exchange differences are
recognizedinprofitorloss.Fornon-monetaryfinancialassetsmeasuredatfairvaluethroughothercomprehensiveincome,
unrealized exchange differences are recorded in other comprehensive income until the asset is sold or becomes impaired.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are
translated to Nigerian Naira at exchange rates at each reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the foreign currency
translationreserveinequity.However,iftheoperationisanon-wholly-ownedsubsidiary,thentherelevantproportionateshare
operation is re-classified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
3.6 Interest income and interest expense
Interest income and expense for all interest bearing financial instruments are calculated by applying the effective interest rate
to the gross carrying amount for non-credit impaired financial assets and are recognised within ‘interest income’ and ‘interest
expense’ in the profit or loss . The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments
For credit-impaired financial assets subsequent to initial recognition, interest income is calculated by applying the credit-
3.7 Fees and commissions income and expenses
Feesandcommissionincomeandexpensesthatareintegraltotheeffectiveinterestrateonafinancialassetorliabilityare
includedinthemeasurementoftheeffectiveinterestrate.Otherfeesandcommissionincome,includingaccountservicing
3.8 Net trading and foreign exchange income
Nettradingandforeignexchangeincomecomprisesgainslesslossesrelatedtotradingassetsandliabilities,andincludesall
instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss are also included in net trading income.
3.9 Dividend income
Dividendincomeisrecognisedwhentherighttoreceiveincomeisestablished.Dividendsarereflectedasacomponentof
otheroperatingincomeandrecognisedgrossoftheassociatedwithholdingtax.Thewithholdingtaxexpenseisincludedasa
component of taxation charge for the relevant period.
3.10 Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in the profit or loss except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current income tax liability is the expected tax payable on taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts usedfor taxation purposes. Deferredtax is not recognisedfor thefollowing
temporarydifferences:theinitialrecognitionofgoodwill,theinitialrecognitionofassetsorliabilitiesinatransactionthatisnot
a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in
subsidiariestotheextentthattheyprobablywillnotreverseintheforeseeablefuture.Deferredtaxismeasuredatthetaxrates
Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries,
associates and joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary
Deferred income tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries,
there is sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Adeferredtaxasset isrecognisedonlytotheextent that itisprobablethatfuturetaxableprofitswillbeavailableagainst
whichtheassetcanbeutilised.Deferredtaxassetsarereviewedateachreportingdateandarereducedtotheextentthatit
is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesareoffsetifthereisalegallyenforceablerighttooffsetcurrenttaxliabilitiesagainstcurrent
taxassets,andtheyrelatetotaxesleviedbythesametaxauthorityonthesametaxableentity,orondifferenttaxentities,but
they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised
3.12 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
ThesearetheassetstheGroupacquiresprincipallyforthepurposeofsellinginthenearterm,orholdsaspartofaportfolio
thatismanagedtogetherforshort-termprofitorpositiontaking. Theyaremeasuredatfairvaluewithchangesinfairvalue
recognised as part of net trading and foreign exchange income in profit or loss.
recentmarkettransactions,andvaluationtechniques.Derivativesarecarriedasassetswhentheirfairvaluearepositiveand
as liabilities whentheir fair valuearenegative. All changes in fair valuearerecognizedas part of net trading andforeign
exchange income in profit or loss.
reliably. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciationisrecognisedinprofitorlossonastraight-linebasisovertheestimatedusefullivesofeachpartofanitemof
embodiedintheasset.Leasedassetsaredepreciatedovertheshorteroftheleasetermandtheirusefullives.Depreciation
held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Workinprogressrepresentscostsincurredonassetsthatarenotavailableforuse.Onbecomingavailableforuse,therelated
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
3.15 Intangible assets
GoodwillrepresentstheexcessofconsiderationovertheGroup'sinterestinnetfairvalueofnetidentifiableassets,liabilities
andcontingentliabilitiesoftheacquiredsubsidiariesatthedateofacquisition.Whentheexcessisnegative,itisrecognised
immediately in profit or loss. Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
the carrying value of its net assets, including attributable goodwill. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Subsequentexpenditureonsoftwareassetsiscapitalisedonlywhenitincreasesthefutureeconomicbenefitsembodiedinthe
Amortisationisrecognisedinprofitorlossonastraight-linebasisovertheestimatedusefullifenotexceedingfiveyears,from
3.16 Impairment of non-financial assets
Inassessingvalueinuse,theestimatedfuturecashflowsarediscountedtotheirpresentvalueusingapre–taxdiscountrate
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that
recognisedfortheassetinprioryears.Suchreversalisrecognisedinprofitorloss.Impairmentlossesrelatingtogoodwillarenot
3.17 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-
current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than
immediate sale in its present condition, subject to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.
Immediately before classification as held for sale or distribution, the assets are re-measured in accordance with the Group’s
accounting policies. Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less
Repossessed collateral represents financial and non-financial assets acquired by the Group in settlement of overdue loans.
The assets are initially recognised at fair value when acquired and included in the relevant assets depending on the nature
and the Group's intention in respect of recovery of these assets; and are subsequently remeasured and accounted for in
accordance with the accounting policies for these categories of assets. In situation property is repossessed following the
less costs to sell and reported as assets held for sale.
The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as
accounting policy for consolidation). Accounting policy for associates is applied to repossessed shares where the Group
pledged shares.
The Group classifies debt and equity as financial liabilities or equity instruments in accordance with the substance of the
costusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod,exceptwheretheGroupchoosestocarrytheliabilitiesatfairvaluethroughprofitor
aredeterminedbydiscountingtheexpectedfuturecashflowsatapre-taxratethatreflectscurrentmarketassessmentsof
Before a provision is established, the Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with that contract.
Financialguaranteeliabilitiesareinitiallyrecognisedattheirfairvalue,whichisthepremiumreceived,andthenamortised
liabilities.
contributionsifthefunddoesnotholdsufficientassetstopayallemployeesthebenefitsrelatingtoemployeeserviceinthe
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when they are due.
Incrementalcostsdirectlyattributabletotheissueofanequityinstrumentaredeductedfromtheinitialmeasurementofthe
equity instruments.
(b) Dividend on ordinary shares
DividendsontheGroup’sordinarysharesarerecognisedinequityintheperiodinwhichtheyarepaidor,ifearlier,approved
(c) Treasury shares
WheretheGrouporanymemberoftheGrouppurchasestheGroup’sshares,theconsiderationpaidisdeductedfromthe
shareholders’ equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.Where such shares aresubsequently soldor reissued, any
consideration received is included in shareholders’ equity.
TheGrouppresentsbasicearningspershare(EPS)foritsordinaryshares.BasicEPSiscalculatedbydividingtheprofitorloss
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average
number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
TheGroupcommonlyactsastrusteesinotherfiduciarycapacitiesthatresultintheholdingorplacingofassetsonbehalfof
individuals,trusts,retirementbenefitplansandotherinstitutions.Theseassetsandincomesarisingthereonareexcludedfrom
these financial statements, as they are not assets of the Group.
recognised as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recognised.
AnoperatingsegmentisacomponentoftheGroupthatengagesinbusinessactivitiesfromwhichitmayearnrevenuesand
incurexpenses,includingrevenuesandexpensesthatrelatetotransactionswithanyoftheGroup'sothercomponents,whose
3.28 IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers
IFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers defines principles for recognising revenue and is applicable to all contracts
with customers. However, interest and fee income integral to financial instruments and leases will continue to fall outside the
Revenue under IFRS 15 is recognised as goods and services are transferred, to the extent that the transferor anticipates
nature, extent and timing as well as any uncertainty of revenue and the corresponding cash flows with customers.
a. Initial recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets
Regular-waypurchasesandsalesoffinancialassetsarerecognizedonthesettlementdate.Financialassets,whichinclude
bothdebtandequitysecuritiesaremeasuredatinitialrecognitionatfairvalue,andareclassifiedandsubsequentlymeasured
at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or amortised cost.
The Group has irrevocably elected to measure equity instruments at FVOCI as no equity instrument is held for trading
TheGroupdeterminesthebusinessmodelsatthelevelthatbestreflectshowportfoliosoffinancialassetsaremanaged to
•Howtheeconomicactivitiesofourbusinessesgeneratebenefits,forexamplethroughtradingrevenue,enhancingyieldsor
•Hold-to-Collect (HTC):Theobjectiveofthisbusinessmodelistoholdfinancialassetstocollect contractual principaland
where assets are held-for-trading or managed on a fair value basis.
profit margin.
below. Interest income, including the amortization of premiums and discounts on securities measured at amortised cost are
recorded in interest income. Impairment gains or losses recognized on amortised cost securities are recorded in Allowance for
amortised cost of the security at the time of the sale is recorded as a fixed income securities income in Net trading and foreign
exchange income.
included in fair value reserve in equity. Impairment gains and losses are included in allowance for credit losses and
exchange income.
Equity securities carried at FVOCI are measured at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are
recorded in fair value reserve and not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss when realized. Dividends from FVOCI equity
securities are recognized in other operating income.
and settlement date are reflected in income for securities measured at FVTPL, and changes in the fair value of securities
rates on debt securities, which are recorded in net trading and foreign exchange income.
Thefair valueoption can beusedfor financialassets ifit eliminatesor significantlyreduces ameasurement orrecognition
inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities, or recognizing related gains and losses on a
different basis (an “accounting mismatch”). The fair value option can be elected for financial liabilities if: (i) the election
FinancialassetsdesignatedasFVTPLarerecordedatfairvalueandanyunrealizedgainsorlossesarisingduetochangesinfair
value are included in net trading and foreign exchange income.
Financial liabilities designated as FVTPL are recorded at fair value and fair value changes attributable to changes in the
income. The remaining fair value changes not attributable to changes in the Group's own credit risk are recorded in Other
operating income. Upon initial recognition, if it is determined that presenting the effects of own credit risk changes in OCI
would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in net income, the full fair value change in debt securities designated as
FVTPL is recognized in net income. To make that determination, the Group assess whether to expect that the effects of
changes in the liability’s credit risk will be offset in profit or loss by a change in the fair value of another financial instrument
Financial assets are reclassified when and only when the business model for managing those assets changes. The
classification of financial assets policy provided above. Loans are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest
method, which represents the gross carrying amount less allowance for credit losses.
Interestonloansisrecognizedininterestincomeusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod.Theestimatedfuturecashflowsusedin
incomeovertheexpectedtermofsuchloansusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod.Wherethereisareasonableexpectation
thataloanwillbeoriginated,commitmentandstandbyfeesarealsorecognizedasinterestincomeovertheexpectedterm
oftheresultingloansusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod.Otherwise,suchfeesarerecordedasotherliabilitiesandamortised
into Other operating income over the commitment or standby period.
An allowance for credit losses (ACL) is established for all financial assets, except for financial assets classified or designated as
FVTPL and equity securities, which are not subject to impairment assessment. Assets subject to impairment assessment include
loans, overdrafts, debt securities, interest receivable and other financial assets. These are carried at amortised cost and
losses - loans and advances. ACL on debt securities measured at FVOCI is presented in profit or loss with the corresponding
entry to other comprehensive income. ACL on other financial assets is calculated using the 'general approach' and presented
Liabilities – Provisions.
based on changes in credit risk of financial assets since initial recognition:
1) Performing financial assets:
result fromdefaults occurring over the 12 months following the reporting date. Interest income is calculatedon thegross
carrying amount of these financial assets.
2) Underperforming financial assets:
isrecognizedequaltothecreditlossesexpectedovertheremaininglifetimeoftheasset.Interestincomeiscalculatedonthe
gross carrying amount of these financial assets.
3) Impaired financial assets
credit quality since initial recognition. Interest revenue is calculated based on the carrying amount of the asset, net of the loss
allowance, rather than on its gross carrying amount.
The ACL represents an unbiased estimate of expected credit losses on our financial assets as at the balance sheet date.
independently at each reporting period. Assets can move in both directions through the stages of the impairment model.
Financing, Object Financing, Income Producing Real Estate, Commercial Real Estate and Mortgage Loans;
m. Credit-impaired financial assets (Stage 3)
Financial assets are assessed for credit-impairment at each balance sheet date and more frequently when circumstances
the asset’s gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the instrument’s original
effective interest rate. For impaired financial assets with drawn and undrawn components, expected credit losses also reflect
When a financial asset is credit-impaired, interest ceases to be recognised on the regular accrual basis, which accrues income
based on the gross carrying amount of the asset. Rather, interest income is calculated by applying the original effective
interest rate to the amortised cost of the asset, which is the gross carrying amount less the related ACL.
Following impairment, interest income is recognized on the unwinding of the discount from the initial recognition of
The following will be applicable to modified financial assets:
• The general impairment model does not apply to purchased or originated credit-impaired assets.
p. Classification and measurement of financial liabilities
The Group recognizes financial liabilities when it first becomes a party to the contractual rights and obligations in the relevant
Under IFRS 9, financial liabilities are either classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost or financial liabilities at FVTPL.
The Group classifies its financial liabilities as measured at amortised cost, except for:
i. Financial liabilities at FVTPL: this classification is applied to derivatives, financial liabilities held for trading (e.g. short positions in
the trading booking) and other financial liabilities designated as such at initial recognition. A financial liability is classified as
evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking.
Gains or losses from financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss are presented partially in other
comprehensive income (the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the
rise to market risk) and partially profit or loss (the remaining amount of change in the fair value of the liability). This is unless such
in the Group’s credit risk are also presented in profit or loss;
Financial liabilities that are not classified at fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method. Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are deposits from banks or customers, borrowings, and
subordinated liabilities.
the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred, or has assumed an obligation to pay those cash flows
Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
The Group may enter into transactions whereby it transfers assets , but retains either all risks and rewards of the transferred
assets or a portion of them. If all or substantially all risks and rewards are retained, then the transferred assets are not
The rights and obligations retained in the transfer are recognised separately as assets and liabilities as appropriate. In transfers
The Group adopts a single measurement approach and recognizes right to use of assets and lease liability at
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct
use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the
assets.
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a
When assets are leased to a third party under finance lease terms, the present value of the lease income is recognised as a
receivable. The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned
finance income. Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method (before tax), which
derecognise financial liabilities that are settled through an electronic payment system before settlement date if certain
ii) Clarified how to assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of financial assets that include environmental, social and
iv) Requires additional disclosures in IFRS 7 for financial assets and liabilities with contractual terms that reference a contingent event
(including those that are ESG-linked), and equity instruments classified at fair value through other comprehensive income
(c) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture - IFRS 10 and IAS 28
defined in IFRS 3 Business combinations. Any gain or loss resulting from the sale or contribution of assets that does not constitute a
Financial Statements. IFRS 18 introduces new categories and subtotals in the statement of profit or loss. It also requires disclosure
For the purposes of classifying its income and expenses into the categories required by IFRS 18, an entity will need to assess
whether it has a ‘main business activity’ of investing in assets or providing financing to customers, as specific classification
income and expenses that an entity uses in public communications outside financial statements, to communicate
5 Interest income Group
Interest income on financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss
Total interest income 599,834 440,764
Lease Liabilities 361 319
7 Fees and commission income Group
Electronic banking income 47,844 44,358
Trade transactions income 6,471 6,162
9 Net trading and foreign exchange income Group
Fixed income securities 20,457 18,108
Foreign exchange trading income 18,697 23,695
10 Other operating income Group
Dividend income 1 1
Rental income 74 74
Other income 3 ,293 3,741
11b Net impairment charge on other financial assets
Impairment charge on other assets 2 ,260 1,675
Net impairment charge on other financial assets 3,057 1,675
Amortisation of intangible assets 2,027 1,538
15 Taxation
(a) Current tax expense
(b) Current tax liabilities Group
Tax paid ( 94,207) (122,770)
Income tax charge 14,422 219,082
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 1 83,014 135,565
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 3 4,199 34,199
18 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Group Group
(ii) Fixed income trading activities are restricted to the parent alone.
19 Assets under management Group Group
Gross amount 1 99,191 570,958
Gross amount 7 ,154,907 7,275,343
(a)At fair value through other comprehensive income
Equity investments 5 11,339 505,413
23 Other assets
Recoverable taxes 2 2,576 7,776
Gross amount 1 ,262,911 1,234,215
Impairment loss on other assets (38,483) ( 47,953)
assets or liabilities together with their notional amounts. The notional amount which is
recorded gross, is the amount of a derivative's underlying asset, reference rate or index
Derivative assets
Derivative liabilities
27 Other liabilities
Financial liabilities Mar. 2025 Dec. 2024
Lease Liabilities 36,158 7 1,876
Non-financial liabilities
Deferred income 1,775 6 ,134
Total other liabilities 329,459 6 80,314
shares of 50k each 17,100 17,100
The Bank registered an equity capital raise programme with the Securities and Exchange Commission to raise fresh
equity capital of up to ₦400 billion and commenced the first tranche of the capital raise by a way of Rights Issue in
There was no repurchase of shares during the period, and the Bank did not issue any equity instrument during the
Share premium is the excess paid by shareholders over the nominal value for their shares.
Retainedearningsisthecarriedforwardrecognisedincomenetofexpensespluscurrentyearprofitattributableto
(ii) Contingent liabilities
indemnities. Contingent liabilities and commitments comprise acceptances, endorsements, guarantees and letters
The following tables summarise the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-
balance sheet risk. There are no guarantees, commitments or other contingent liabilities arising from related party
Gross amount 2,628,255 1,897,226
The possibility of outflows in settlement of the contingent liabilities is considered remote.
equipment or intangible assets. At the balance sheet date, the Group had capital commitments amounting to
In compliance with Rule 17.15 Disclosure of Dealings in Issuers’ Shares, Rulebook of the Exchange 2015 (Issuers
members, employees and all individuals categorized as insiders as to their dealing in the Company’s shares. The